... there is a big day in Westminster
It is Prinsjesdag in London, 27 April.
And today I have one mission:
to get as many news items as possible in the background.
Camera crews swarm through the capital.
I have a public transport chip card, a map of London ...
... there is only one problem.
However, I do not need a public transport card.
Because I have this: the Mattmobile.
It is 10 o'clock, the game has begun.
And we're ... stuck in traffic a bit.
300 kilometers away, a trained team of researchers watched the TV ...
... to tell us where the cameras were.
How are you doing? - Well.
Okay, I hardly hear you. Where should I go?
Head towards Westminster. - Okay, Westminster.
They are there with a camera crew to interview parliamentarians.
Attending MEPs. The lawn in front of the parliament.
Okay, thanks Toni, day! Thank you! Here we go.
Tom will now go to the center with the metro.
He probably runs into us.
But we just heard about the command center ...
... that one of the metro lines does not drive.
"Because of a strike, the Victoria line is blocked in both directions."
Fantastic. The Victoria line ceases.
How can a single metro line stop?
Those windows look like gray panels from the outside, right?
I had a plan that consisted of getting my head behind Philip Schofield.
Yes. There's a lamp post next to that circular thing, right?
When I climb on it I have to be able to get into the picture.
Somewhere here is that lawn where they always interview politicians.
Meanwhile, Matt Gray is stuck in traffic somewhere in London.
The magic of London is its infrastructure, which still dates from the Middle Ages.
This is just a statue with groups of traffic lights around it ...
... and you just have to gamble.
I wish I had my public transport card with me.
"The next station is Westminster."
Hello how are you? - Well, we drive towards the Blackfriars Bridge.
A few roads that we wanted to take were closed.
Right, maybe it's better to do something else ...
... and find a place to park your car ...
... and go to Downing Street. - The command center was right.
While I was parking, Tom was already at Westminster.
Although he might not have been able to run through the subway station with a backpack.
I had something to make up for.
Hello, a very good morning.
Of course we have the latest news about the budget. In the coming minutes (...)
It was an outright race, but I had miles ahead.
And I did not run like a girl.
There it is. There it is!
They are. They must be.
They are now live on both channels from Westminster.
Okay, what can you see? Do you see the policeman and the street?
I am now behind the BBC tent.
Behind the BBC? Stay there, because they come back there after the movie.
Here? - They went to someone else again.
You have to stand at a lamppost.
You are in the picture, you are now in the picture. To wave!
That is him. - Yes, 20 points!
20 points, on to Sky News.
I had bitten it off, and I called Matt ...
especially to make him jealous.
Hi Tom. - 20 points.
20? Oh no. - I was shown dancing at BBC News.
So that's 20 points. - Okay, I have to go. I must hurry ...
... because I am too far away. See you later!
See you soon, bye!
I arrived a little later, but not before Tom had tried in vain for ten minutes ...
... to find out what the Sky cameras were focused on.
I will not come on. They are starting to learn it.
They have moved their cameras, so they look up at people ...
... to Parliament instead of the street. This is going to require a creative solution.
Nice glasses.
We are going to look at Downing Street, I'll see you later.
Okay, okay. - See you later!
The BBC had a camera aimed at the prime minister's door.
He had to come out once, and then drive Downing Street.
I can not come there. The press does: there are a lot of cameras ...
... at numbers 10 and 11. And also a van of a cleaning company.
I assume that these are indeed cleaners ...
... and not some secret service.
And now we have to wait.
From Liverpool, back to you.
That was Declan Curry in Liverpool.
In this program we like to hear what you think.
I do not think they wanted to hear from us.
Our editor politician, Adam Boulton, is with them in Westminster. Adam.
Yes, Dermot, you can follow me on Twitter and so ...
... I have no idea how it works, but apparently.
We just see the fences, at the very bottom of the picture.
And the police, on their side of the road.
You have to stand between the bald guy and the one with brown hair.
Eh, no, that camera position has changed again.
This is Sky, who can not even keep their cameras still.
Look Adam, I'm also on Twitter, and I have to go back to tweet questions from the Prime Minister.
We are modern.
We can probably see you, but you can not do anything strange.
You only get four seconds.
What Tom did not succeed in ten minutes, I succeeded in two minutes through pure luck.
Unfortunately, I did not notice.
And while Tom was waiting, I also took the BBC with me.
... to tell us what their expectation is. Jon.
Yes, it is a happy event that we are not here to tremble on this lawn.
Ooh! Hey. The command center is calling again. Hey?
They are live. You really have plenty of places to go to.
Let me remind you how important the economic background of the budget is.
They are now going to a movie. Find a place where you can see the camera ...
... and then you should come into the picture once.
Yes. Let's stop talking to save battery for both of us.
Here, outside Westminster ... - There he is!
There, he is in the picture.
Do something stupid, Matt. I just hung up.
Do something stupid, you idiot!
Yes! Now!
Good!
Well done Matt, that's 20 points.
Hello Matt. - Hi Tom. Well, how are you doing?
Have you earned any points? - No, nothing happens here in Downing Street.
We thought that someone would make pictures with a ladder, but that was not the case.
You are at 20 points. - Yes.
I now stand at 30 points, confirmed. - Oh no!
During a BBC interview with Iain Duncan Smith, I danced the YMCA.
Okay, see you later Matt. - See you, Tom. Good luck.
Good luck. Bye.
I am going to win.
And then it got worse. The prime minister took a different route.
For the people who are now confused about the geography of what we look at ...
he did not go to Whitehall.
He drove under the arch of Foreign Affairs.
They follow a very strange route.
They are going to the banks of the Thames, I would guess.
They're going through the back entrance ... - I did not get any more points.
I went back to parliament and discussed with Matt.
You can get 10 extra points by doing something crazy at Sky News.
Yes. - And I can still get 20 points ...
... which would equalize the score. I think we're in the wrong place.
Yes. We can best go back there, I think?
Then the prime minister went to explain the budget, and the camera crews outside had a break ...
so we did the only thing we could do: look at it.
The prime minister expects the economy to shrink by 3.5% that year.
That is much worse than previously predicted.
Matt and his balls gave me an idea.
Can I borrow those balls?
What are you going to do? In the picture of the cameras juggle?
I want to do that!
Politically, it might be interesting how David Cameron ...
... as I had predicted ... - Not fair! Not fair!
It was a courageous attempt, but the security of Sky News ...
managed to stop us soon.
The problem is that Sky News has the cameras too high.
Way too high. - That's not going to work.
We should climb.
Then I realized that the solution was right in front of me.
Abingdon Street.
I have the plan B to get to London's local BBC news tonight.
Hopefully the command center can find a news report from London.
They could. The first metro strike under Mayor Boris Johnson
It was amazing. And it was in that one place where Tom could not even get his public transport card: ...
... the Victoria line. On to the Mattmobile.
No one is filming there. - And while Matt was driving ...
I did the only thing I could do. Round and round and around.
Traffic was disastrous, even for London. Especially for London.
Then Tom heard something from the command center.
In parliament? The BBC are now - moment - I'm going to pick up that bus.
The BBC had placed a camera in the lobby of the parliament ...
which is actually open to the public.
So I should go in there, and do that ... okay, okay.
I can try that.
So I had to make a decision.
Stay in the bus, which probably would never work ...
... or go to parliament, where I probably would not even come in.
But just then it appeared that I did not have to choose.
Here we go - right now.
I'll come by later.
Sky News - wait a minute, this might well succeed.
Okay, there we go, the bus is passing by.
Ehm, from the left, right to the left.
And to make it even more fun, the BBC was also live.
That must have been successful. Yes!
Time was running, and our deadline was close.
Matt had been stuck in traffic jams for hours.
I was waiting in a queue, in the full sun.
A reporter forgot to say something.
BBC cameras went to the Victoria line while the command center tried desperately ...
to find a route for Matt.
Could one of us score some extra points?
Yes, I could.
You can not see here that three policemen and two security people ...
were ready to arrest me if I was doing weird ...
... so I could only salute to the camera. But it counted anyway.
And it was time. We finally met at a parking lot on the south bank of the Thames.
Long day. - It was a very long day.
You won, did not you? - I won. Sorry, Matt.
More evidence that you can not drive in London.
On to the cafe.